Course: Agentic Data Engineering with Amazon Q
Lesson: 2 Start Iterative Development - Load the data RESUME
============================================================

Next step, go to
the search bar.
Search Glue.
Open AWS Glue.
Go to the left-hand side. Click on ETL Jobs.
Next, click on Notebook, then choose an IAM role.
Choose Mission DEH HOF Glue Service Role.
This is already in your
account, got created when you ran the script,
which created the S3 bucket as well.
So in the real world, this would have been given you by your-- And then click on
Create Notebook. This will take about a minute or two.
Meanwhile, go back to your VS Code.
Right-click on this. Click on Rename.
Copy the file name. Right-click on that, Copy.
Go back to the AWS console. Right here, click on that.
Delete all of that, and then paste the file
name. This is your Glue notebook name. Now click on Enter.
You see this red thing here. Now click on this Job details. Scroll down a bit.
Everything looks good. The two and the red thing is gone now.
We'll go back to Notebook. Let me zoom out a bit.
Now what you see here is a notebook. Okay? What you see here is a notebook.
A notebook helps us to iteratively develop things.
Okay? Now, what's our goal now? Our goal is to read the data which is in the
raw folder, transform that per the mapping given to us by the analyst,
also do some validation data quality checks,
and then finally load that to curated layer, the folder. That's our ask.
So there are multiple steps involved.
First step
is to read the data from raw. Second step, transform it.
Third step,
do data quality validation. Fourth step is to write the
validated data back into
curated layer. So there are four steps involved here.
So notebook is used to develop things iteratively.
When I say iteratively, we can run a part of the code and see
how it behaves.
We don't have to run the entire code from top to bottom.
So we can
do things step by step.
This is what a notebook enables us, and this is how we start in the development
phase. When we have a new project,
when you're working on Apache Spark-based
project, we go with notebook. If you're working on a Python-based project,
we don't use notebook. It is only for PySpark-based jobs.
So now, in a notebook, we have different cells here. Okay?
So here we already have some pre-populated information.
Now, what you see here, the percentage
indicates that these are magic commands. Okay?
You're setting the properties of this notebook
through these magic commands. You're going with worker type G1X.
All of this is discussed in deep dive. Okay?
Worker type, the number of workers.
For now, we'll not talk about
the theory part now. We'll just stick to the hands-on part.
So for our use case, we just need
the minimum number of workers. So we'll just stick to two.
I'll remove the five and make it two.
Okay? Next, I'm going to run this. So to run this, I can just go
click on this cell and go here and run this with the help
of the button here.
So now you see here, the star mark, it is running currently. Okay?
Right here as well, you see it shows kernel status busy.
Okay? Right here, in fact. If I scroll down,
you see the output here. Whatever is running here, this part of the code is
running, in fact, with just this much, and it's already printing some output here.
So this is how we do iterative development.
We're waiting for a session to be created.
Okay? Now, what a session is, all of that, what
this means, all that is covered in the deep dive course.
While we wait for this to run, we don't have to have
these cells here.
They are all sample cells that got created.
We'll delete them. We'll click on them.
We'll go to this
knife button here. We'll click on that.
We'll keep on removing them one by one.
We don't need them at all. Now the session has been created.
The next step, if you've gone through my PySpark Skill Booster, the
spark session is the entry point. So we need to have this ready before we do
anything at all. So the next step is to go back to my Visual
Studio, and I have the
code that I've already provided to you.
You're going to copy this whole code, in fact.
Now, just copy this one cell alone, okay?
Not the cell
below. Okay? Just copy the cell
that I'm showing you right now. Just copy this.
Just click here, do a Control + A, select the whole cell,
and then go here,
click on the three
dots, More actions,
Copy cell. Go back to your notebook.
And now we don't really have any cell here, right? We got to create a cell now.
So we're going to go here and click on this plus button.
That will create a code cell for us. This is a code cell.
You see there are different types of cells here, raw, markdown, and
code. We will choose code. So we'll click here, and from the
keyboard, we'll just do Control + V.
That pasted the code that we copied from the VS Code. Okay?
Now how this code was created, all of that is discussed in the Build Data
Engineering Code with Agentic AI course. Now, what are we doing here?
We are going to be creating some variables for
the bucket name and then where the raw
data is going to be, which folder, the raw path, and where we want
to store the curated data, the path here, in fact. Okay?
Now, initially, what we're going to do is when we are developing,
we will just develop for one partition alone, for one file
alone. Now, we know that we have data for 2024 and
2025, but we will not use entire data for development.
We'll start with just one month of data, one file alone.
So I mentioned the target year and target month here and
specific path where we will find
That particular month's data. Okay.
Now, we're going to read the file, right?
The
January 2024 data into a raw data frame.
We'll do some basic data exploration. We'll look at how the schema looks like.
We'll see some sample data as well,
and some column analysis you see here, and some more
analysis on the license numbers.
Okay, so essentially we are just loading the data and doing some analysis on that.
Now, again, if this code is
overwhelming for you, then it means you may not really have gone through the
Python and PySpark Skill Booster. You should have gone through that.
And also if you go through the Agentic Data Engineering with Amazon
Q course of mine,
there I've shown you how to understand the code with the help
of agent. You just copy the whole thing and put that in Amazon Q, it will tell
you exactly what the code is doing.
You can chat with that and get information.
Okay. Right. So now we have the code ready. We're going to run this now.
To run this, we'll just select the cell here and run the
cell by clicking this button right here.
Now, again, this shows gray, shows kernel status as busy.
So we need to wait for this to finish.
And if you scroll up and see this is showing up as star here, it means it
is also running.
I'll just scroll down and wait for it to finish. There you go. It's all done.
It says, "Loading data from this path.
Data loaded successfully."
Total records, we have 19 million records and 24 columns.
Here is the schema,
sample data as well.
And if you scroll down, the column analysis as well. Okay.
How many nulls you have,
all of that is analyzed here, in fact. The license distribution as well.
Now, if you go back to the NYC TLC portal and look at the data dictionary,
you see this license number corresponds to Uber and this
one corresponds to Lyft. So it looks like we only have data for
Uber and Lyft in our file.
That's pretty much it. We have loaded the data, now we are ready for
transformations per the mapping sheet that
is given to us by analyst, which we'll do in the next video.
So make sure you get this done
and talk to-- And remember, if you will take a break,
if you'll not go to the next video, make sure you stop the notebook.
Otherwise, you will incur
expense. And if you do stop the notebook, when you come back again,
you will have to start from the top.
You'll have to start running the cell
again, this cell again, and you'll have to run the next cell again before you
run the third cell, in which we'll transform the
data. Only if you want to take a break, then stop it.
If you stop it, you'll have to
rerun all the cells again.
See you in the next video.