Course: Agentic Data Engineering with Amazon Q
Lesson: 3 *Transform, Validate and Load to Curated* RESUME
============================================================

Alright, I'm, I'm assuming
that you have all run all the cells
and you're ready to run the second step, which is
to transform data for that, go to the VS code
and scroll down and get the data, the code, not it
as the code from the next cell here.
So control a copy the whole thing.
Code three buttons here, copy cell, go back to your notebook
right here, control V.
Okay. Now if you look at this particular piece of code here,
this is a meat of the data engineering, right?
We transform data, the raw data,
which we get according to the requirements.
And here we have function to do that. Okay?
Now if you look at this particular transformations, these
all of them correspond to the transformations
in the transformation logic mentioned in the mapping sheet.
Let me go back. So using PI Spark,
the transformations is all completed, okay?
And while I was developing this, in fact,
AI gave me the wrong code and we had to debug that
and all of that is covered and build data engineering
course with identity.
So next you wanna run this code.
So before we run this code, what, what does this code do?
The previous cell had lowered the raw data
into our raw data frame, right?
The raw df.
So this whole, the raw data frame holds the raw data.
And that raw data frame
is now being passed to this function.
And the raw data frame is now transformed.
And the transformed data frame is told in
curated data frame.
So this curated data frame holds the transformed data.
Now if we scroll down, you will see
that the curated data frame is
being returned from the function.
So this function now returns this one
and it is again stored back into curated data frame.
And then we have some print statements here
to look at the total columns
and this print the schema as well.
So we'll just run this by clicking on
this button right here.
So you see it is again, showing busy, it's all run.
Now the transformations are all completed.
Now we have additional columns, 38 columns, right?
Because you go back
to the mapping sheet in the target field,
in the curated layer, we are gonna have bound
to have additional fields.
We're gonna have at least 38 fields.
They show 39 here
because the first one is of course
the had a in the Excel sheet.
So we have 38 fields shortly.
And that is what we see here as well.
And this is our schema of the curated layer.
Now data is transformed, okay?
It is in the curated data frame.
It is not in the data lake yet, okay?
If you're gone through the PI park booster course, you know
that data is still
in the memory, okay?
It is not written onto the S3 yet on a data lake yet.
But before we write this data,
we will do some additional check, right?
As per the the mapping sheet, we also have
to implement data quality rules.
I mean, if the,
the curated data doesn't really meet these
rules, we'll be rejecting them.
Reject record is right here.
In fact, that is action on failure. So we wanna reject them.
So we to now run the data quality code as well.
For that it'll go to the VS code, scroll down
and then again click on the cell to control a go here.
Actions copy cell, go back to our notebook,
scroll down, down, down, down, down, down.
Click on the next cell control V.
Now this is the code that does the validation of data
based on, on our data quality rules.
So here we have the rules,
and again, on the curated data frame, not on the raw,
on the cur data frame,
we are gonna be applying all the filters based on our rules,
data quality rules, and store
the validated data into validated data frame.
And then we are gonna be running some statistics here
to find out how many records are now in the validated data
frame and how many got rejected.
Okay? So let's run this code.
We'll just click on this button here.
Let's see what it shows now. There you go.
So it, we rejected
approximately one 80,000 records, okay?
To be accurate, 188,000 records
for hundred 88,000 4 41 records.
So more than 99% of the, the data was valid, okay?
But there was, there were some records which are not valid.
We have to reject them per the data quality rules that
business team asked us to do as implement.
So the third step is also finished.
Now, the first step was to load the data.
Second step was to transform the data.
Third step was to apply the quality rules.
And now the fourth step is to load this data
from the valid data, data frame into data lake.
Okay? This is still in the memory right of the PI park
of this park in the sense of this park memory as such.
Okay? It's still in the memory. So we'll take a look at the
data lake as three bucket.
We only have raw here, we don't have the curated folder yet
because we haven't written the data yet.
We're gonna go back to notebook and scroll down
and click on the cell, get the code from our VS code.
We'll go here, scroll down, down, down, down,
and copy this cell control a
and click here, copy cell, go back to notebook control we,
and finally we'll turn it before that.
Let's take a look at the code here. What are we doing here?
Okay, we're getting the account id, our account id,
which is, in my case, this is account id.
And because my bucket has the account name, right?
So I want, don't wanna hard code it here.
So I'm getting it through the BO two three
code again, what's BO three?
BO three is the Python library using which you can connect
to any service of AWS, right?
We'll scroll down. And we are now seeing that we,
with the help of validate validated data frame, we are now
gonna be writing the data into the output path
as a parquet format.
Again, partition by year, month, and date.
This is what we want as per our mapping sheet
partitioning strategy here.
We wanna store data in the curated layer by partition
by year, month, and day.
And that is why we have mentioned the partition
as your month and day here.
And in the technical requirements,
we also wanna store the data in par K format.
So we have chosen par K as our format here.
And also we talked about add potency, right?
We want to make sure that if we run the job again
and again, we overwrite the data.
And so we are choosing overwrite here.
We'll run this and we'll see what happens next.
It is getting run now.
So while that is getting run, we'll go to S3
and refresh this.
We'll see shortly
that we'll have a new folder here called as curated.
This might take about a minute or two I think.
So there we go. We have a folder now curated.
We'll go into the folder. We E-H-V-F-H-V.
We have data now for 2024, only for one month.
Exactly that. What we were looking for.
We have data for all the days.
In fact, if you go inside, you see the parquet file,
which is snappy compression.
That is what we were looking for, right? Snappy compression.
How did Snappy come here?
We didn't choose snappy at all, right? We choose parque.
So snappy is the default compression method with parque.
We don't have to explicitly mention that here.
It shows writing the validated data
to the S3 bucket in the curated folder.
Data successfully written and final count is just much.
So we're done with the development. Now it's time to now
convert this notebook to a script.
See, what we've done now is a form of iterative,
Right? We are,
we ran the code one by one
and checked the output,
made sure it's running fine, it's, it's all good.
And then finally we got convinced, okay,
by looking at the data in S3, the next step is
to convert this to a script.
This is not a script, this is a notebook, okay?
Where you're running the part by part code.
So to convert this toward script,
you can just simply go to script here.
You see the script Here, go here. There you go.
The entire script you have got it now, in fact,
okay, this becomes a script.
We gotta take this script, okay?
We gotta copy this whole thing.
Skipped and at can copy, then go to VS code,
right click right here, click on this, type the name
as version dh, HOF NYC script
dot PY.
It's a Python file. Now py and enter, it's empty.
You can just simply paste it right here.
Right click on that and paste it.
So you got the entire code here.
Now remember, this code is gonna be transforming data only
for one month alone, right?
We are doing our initial testing
of the code only in one month.
We gotta modify this now.
Now right below this code I, the video in fact,
or about the video I've, I've given recent transcript,
which has already done that.
So use that code
and build the glue
ETL code in the next video, okay?
Don't use the code that you'll be copying and pasting here,
but use the code that I will give you about this video
that already has the code modified to pull
that 20, 24 and 25 data.
And this was modified in the Build data engineering
code course.
In fact, can you take a look at that course? Okay?
Talk to the next video. And
before you go to the next video, make sure
you actually stop this notebook.
Otherwise you'll get an incorrect expense.
If you go to, let's say, um, the retail jobs here,
it'll show you that your notebook is running.
So you can also terminate the notebook,
uh, from here as well.
So click on, terminate and terminate the notebook.
Very, very important else you'll incur expense.
I hope you're enjoying the hands-on very much.
If you are, type in the command box below
what you have learned so far in your own words.
That is very important. Before you read others comments
in your own words, write what you have learned
and then read others comments as well.
See you in the next video.