Course: Agentic Data Engineering with Amazon Q
Lesson: 2 *Code for both historical and current - run the job* RESUME
============================================================

Guys, we'll come back.
Now we need to think about how to pull data incrementally
as well as, uh, to pull the data historically for all
of these three jobs, right?
It's not just one job alone. Now we look at them one by one.
So first we look at the first job,
which actually downloads the data from the New York, uh,
city TLC portal to our raw layer in S3 bucket.
So I have the code open here, in fact, okay?
The entire code that download the data from N-Y-T-L-C
to the raw folder.
And if we look at the main function here,
so I talked about in the previous video about
two parameters, right?
So what I meant is that be using two parameter values.
So look at this core piece of code here, okay?
The two parameter values are historical and current.
So what the code does is that it's gonna look
for the parameter that is passed to the job, okay?
The parameter value has historical, it's gonna download
the historical data for the last two years.
If it doesn't have any value at all, it'll still
set the job type of historical
and download the last two data.
But if we do send the job type as current, it's going
to download only the latest available month
of the current year only.
So again, don't worry about the code here, okay?
The, the important thing is not code coding.
Anybody can do okay?
With the help of, you know, Amazon queue,
you can, anybody can code.
That is one important thing. You
understand the concept here?
Concept is more important because when the interview,
they look for the concepts, okay?
Because now everybody knows that anybody can code.
So if you wanna just again,
get a more detailed analysis about this
and take a look at the, uh, amazing Q'S response here.
It says, yes, I have, uh, the script here.
It has two operating modes, historical mode,
current mode, right?
It has everything. You can go through this, okay?
Don't worry about the code at all.
What is more important is your thought process about how
you wanna be implementing historical versus incremental
pull of the data.
So I said that if you don't provide any job type,
it'll default to historical.
It'll pull two years later. That's why when you have the job
before without the job parameter, which you can see here,
in fact, okay, I'm in the glue job right now, console,
and if we scroll down on in the job details part,
scroll down, there's a section for job parameters.
We had not provided any parameter here.
So we had simply run it and
because we didn't put any parameters, it defaulted
to historical and pulled the historical data.
Okay? So that takes care of pulling the historical data.
Now, if you wanna pull the current month's data alone,
and I say current month, the latest available month
of the latest year, why not current?
Because as I said before, that N-Y-C-L-C publishes data,
which one or two month lag as such?
So the code is designed such that it'll
get the latest available month only.
Okay? These are all important concepts.
This is our design system.
In fact, now before I actually add the job, but I wanna
Just, uh, delete the data here, okay?
I'm gonna delete all of this data that we have here
and even draw, I'm gonna delete the data
and then run the step one again.
So we just go and get this turned right here
and the data charts a few seconds.
So there we golet the data.
See, look at the amount of data we had. 23.8 gb.
I mean, if you talk about this much value,
you're gonna interview people would easily believe that yes,
you really have worked in industry, okay?
We're not playing with toy data sets here, okay?
We're playing with real data set
that gets published every month, in fact,
okay, data's all gone now.
Okay? We'll, uh, go back to our blue console
and we will add the parameter,
which is how do you add the parameter?
Well, you need to add the parameter with hyen hyen
and what's the parameter name?
Look at this here. The parameter name is job type. Okay?
Job type is what is sent. Okay? So job type.
Again, if you don't know why I'm using job type, ask Chad,
GBT No, no.
I mean ask amazing q as to
which is the right argument, okay?
Code even or a debug a code
that somebody else has editor, you get the point, right?
It, it, things are so simple.
Now just copy this job, type right here, job type,
and then enter the value as current, okay?
And then we'll just save it. We'll just run it now, okay?
There's now being run, it's running right now.
Well, the job got over
and it just took 29 seconds only compared to five minutes
and 59 seconds before Iran.
And at that time it had pulled two years worth of data,
but now in 29 seconds it just pulled one month of data.
That's why we have so much of less runtime
for this particular run here, in fact.
So we'll go back to our three data lake and take a look.
We'll refresh it, and we should see the raw folder here.
Within that we'll see H-V-F-H-V folder,
and you'll see the data only for 2095
and November month alone,
because we just have data till
November month alone of 2095.
As of now, as this recording, in fact, if you go down here,
it just shows that you have it for now, Amber alone,
there is no data for December here.
That, so it was able to pull
the latest available months data, it was able
to pull data incrementally,
that is the right word, incrementally.
So we just saw how we were able to convert our, uh,
implement the incremental versus historical for
this job alone.
Now, let's see how the incremental versus historical applies
to these two jobs as well.
Okay? Now you see that
job number two will process whatever data you have in raw
correct and load to curate.
And job number three will process whatever it has included
and load to aggregate it.
So keep this in mind. And, uh,
in the next video we'll talk about the reason why we
Need to, to actually think about historical versus
incremental for these two jobs also.
Now, these are very, very important things.
What I'm teaching now is practical things.
You know, you go to any Udemy, go to any YouTube, you, you,
these things you will not be able to find easily anywhere.
These, this come with some practical experience
of being in the field for so many years, okay?
And I'm gonna share all my knowledge by putting a lot
of thought behind how I should be creating a course so that
anybody with no experience to even 20 years of experience
or even more in fact, is able to
appreciate this and understand it.
Okay? So I hope you're loving it and, uh, making rough notes
and if you are making notes, I, I, which I wanted to do,
in fact, okay, if you have made a notes
so far on this particular video, jot down in your own words
what I've learned so far, okay?
In the video below, let me read that.