Course: Agentic Data Engineering with Amazon Q
Lesson: 4 Extremely Important from Interview Perspective - Enable Job bookmarks for incremental processing RESUME
============================================================

All right, let's implement the incremental processing in job number two now,
first, and then look at job number three.
Job number two simply pulls the data from raw to curated.
So let's go to our Glue console and look at the raw to
curated. I feel it's right here. In fact, I'll click on this.
The simple solution is to actually go to Job details and scroll
down, and you see the Job bookmark here?
You go to enable this, okay? It says it can remember previously
processed data. Enable it, okay? And if you
keep it disabled, it'll ignore said information, okay?
So enable it now, and, uh, save it. And one more thing is if you just
enable it, it will not work. There is one more
critical thing, okay, which you have to
really take care of, and that is you go to Script. Okay?
I'll provide the script to you. It's an updated script.
It's not the one that you used before, okay?
Below this video or above this video, you will see the script.
Go to your VS Code, get the
script, go back to Script here, delete, and
right-click and paste again, and then save it.
Okay? I'll tell you what the difference is. The difference here is this, okay?
In the previous script, if you have it, take...
open it and take a look, okay? Now, we discussed about this in deep dive also, that
when you're reading a file, you can re-read it as a Spark data frame, but
here
we are reading as a dynamic frame. The dynamic frame is a
concept of AWS Glue, okay? It is
specific to AWS Glue alone. Now, what is dynamic frame?
It is discussed in deep dive. For the Glu- the Glue
bookmark, job bookmark to work, you have to be reading the
data through the dynamic frame. And
dynamic frame is created from the catalog, and you mention the
database name, which is our mission database, and table name is, which
holds the raw data, is hvfhv, hvfhv.
If I go to the databases and con-- I want to confirm that.
So here we have the raw data in this table, curated
in this table, and we have three tables for aggregated.
I want to reiterate, for the job bookmark to work,
first thing is you got to enable it, enable it, and then second thing
is you got to be reading the data not
directly as Spark data frame, but as a dynamic
frame from the catalog. And the critical thing here is
that you have to have this transformation context.
You can name this whatever you want, but this is, it doesn't matter, but this thing
has to be there. And just to add some more theoretical concept here,
um, this also works because the code is within job init
and job commit, okay? These are the critical things you got to know,
understand from theoretical perspective as well as from interview perspective
also. So three things. One is you got to enable it, enable job
bookmarks in the script. By default, the job init is added anyway.
Job init and, uh, job commit is added anyway, so all your code, transmission code,
all the code you write is within the job init and job commit
anyway. So that is taken care of by default, but that is a
theoretical thing. You got to understand that.
The critical thing is when you read the data, you got to read from the
catalog to create the dynamic frame using Glue
context. And you got to provide the database name and table name and
provide a transformation context, any name here, in fact.
And then you convert the dynamic frame to a Spark data
frame and do your regular Spark coding as such.
So when you do this, when you do this, what will happen is the Glue job will be
able to understand what partitions of the data it
has really read from the S3 bucket, and then
process the new partitions alone,
okay? So to save the code and close this...
And lastly, before we run the code, you have to, um, make sure that the Glue
catalog table actually has information about the par- new partition,
right? Now, you are actually going to be reading from the Glue catalog
table, and we have got the new
partition, which is the November twenty
twenty-six in our case, okay? Which was not there
before. We got to update that thing in the Glue catalog
table right here. So if you go to the database here and deliver table, go to our
database and look at the table. If you
scroll down, look at the partitions we have here.
What do we have in the partitions? We have twenty twenty-four and twenty
twenty-five, but we have deleted all the
data, right? And we have just loaded twenty
twenty-five November alone, which we do not have here.
November is not here. So we need to get this
updated. So one way is to simply just go to the crawler and, uh, you
know, run the crawler again. It'll go to the S3 bucket and scan it.
But why run the crawler? We have an alternate method here, okay?
In the script itself, we can add a command called as
MSCK repair table. This will actually
update the partitions in the Glue catalog table, okay?
Again, a very, very important interview question.
If at all the partitions get updated in the S3
and your catalog table is not updated with
the, with the latest partitions, you should be running
MSCK repair so that new partitions are discovered
and updated in the catalog table. And finally, and
run it. It's running right now, and it should create the curated folder
for us with just November twenty twenty-five's
data. It's all done. Took about six minutes.
Let's go and take a look at our S3 bucket.
We curate it here, and we go back inside.
We see the November twenty twenty-five right here for all the days, in
fact. If you go to Output logs and click
here, it'll take you to CloudWatch, and if you look at the log,
you'll find that the MSCK repair has finished.
Initially, it loaded all the data, running MSCK repair to discover new
partitions. It has finished, and if you go to the Glue catalog
table, you will now see twenty twenty-five eleven
as well in the next page right here.... right.
So with this, it will be able to load the data because it now knows
that we have a new partition in the S3 bucket.
Now, because we have enabled
the bookmark, okay, it should not really pull the
process data. So let's run it again.
Job details already has the bookmark enabled, which is right here, in
fact. Right here, we'll just run it now. And it finished.
If I go to the output logs, it, uh, is going to show
me that it has run the MSK repair and, uh,
it's trying to load the data with job bookmarks, and it
shows here initial record count is zero. No new data processed.
Job bookmarks filtered all the data. Get the point?
If you go back to S3, S3 has the data.
It, it has the November twenty twenty-five data,
okay? The data is there, but the job bookmark
was enabled, and the code was within the job.init
and within the job.commit,
and the data was being read through
the dynamic frame from the catalog, and
this catalog table was also updated
with the latest partition through MSK repair.
So when all these conditions are met, it is able to skip
the r- the data, which has already been processed.
Very, very important from the interview
perspective. Now, other interview question could be: How do you really
process that data again, now that the joo- b-bookmark is
enabled? What if you want to really process that data again, this
data again, for whatever reason, okay? Whatever reason, it could...
There could be that, uh, ah, there was some need for which you wanted to
process it. Whatever may be the reason, how could you process this
file? Job bookmark is enabled. Now, if you run it again, it will not
read this file because it will say, "Yes, I've read the file again, uh, in the
past," okay? "I will not read it again," it will say.
So the solution for that is you got to go here, choose this, and
then action,
reset bookmark. When you do a reset bookmark, it says, "You are about to
reset the bookmark. Save information about the job.
Tracking of the previously processed data is lost
on reset. Do you want to reset?" And when you run it
again, it will read the data. So give a
try yourself. It will do that, all right?
Even if you just know this much, you should be in a very, very
good position from the interview perspective.
And lastly, how does the job bookmark even track
the already processed files? How does it even know that,
okay, I had processed this file before, I should not be processing it again?
It is based on the last modified timestamp of the file.
This file, particular file, has a timestamp of, uh, Jan five,
uh, nineteen twenty-five, right? This came in at that particular time. Okay?
So I've put the information here, that this is the file and this is the timestamp.
So let's say the job actually, uh, runs at,
um... Let's say twenty thirty-five, twenty-five, okay,
one hour later. So it is going to be running one
hour later.
So this file had come before the job run,
when the job ran, and so it will be able to process it. And imagine the next month.
What will happen the next month is you'll get new file here, right?
You'll get, uh, let's say, December data, and this one will be in, let's
say, February, and, uh, maybe, let's
say, six-- eighteen twenty-five, okay, in the evening or so.
So the-- Let's say the job now runs on Feb
five, at, let's say, again, twenty
twenty-five, okay? This is a scheduled job.
It, it is a scheduled job, and probably, um, it runs every one
the same time, so it starts running at twenty
twenty-five. And now, when the job runs at this particular
time, it finds that, okay, we have,
uh, an, a fi- a file here
with this timestamp, but the previous runtime was this,
okay? It was Jan five. So any file before
that, it's not, not going to read that.
So any data after this, it's going to read and process it.
So basically, it uses the, the file's timestamp to
understand what needs to be processed.
This you need to understand, at least.
This, this theoretical understanding you need to have. Okay?