Course: Agentic Data Engineering with Amazon Q
Lesson: 4. Build the sequential pipeline using Step Function and run it RESUME
============================================================

Next, go to the search bar, look for step function
and click on the step function I icon here.
You'll then click on create state machine.
Step function is a service name
and we create something called a state machine cluster.
And then name this as,
and then name this as mission,
D-H-H-O-F-N-Y-C-T-L-C, data pipeline.
And then uh, click on continue. So what you see is this.
Okay, there's a, a blank canvas you see here in fact.
So next, choose JSON path and then go to code.
Here you have the blank
or the boilerplate code you see here.
Go back to VS code, get the JSON,
the Amazon Streets language code.
I'll be attaching this to the video.
Go back to step function straight machine
and replace this with what you just copied.
Now see what happened here. As soon
as you pasted it on the right hand side, you're seeing
that it is creating the job for you automatically.
So this code, you see here, this code,
entire code in fact creates the job on the right hand side.
This is the definition of the co of the job.
In fact, now you gotta be replacing certain things here.
You gotta be, uh, replacing the
account ID with your account id.
So otherwise it'll not really work.
So make sure you get the account.
Id copy that and look for account id.
So we have four of them in fact.
So we'll replace this part including the dollar,
all the four replaced, we'll just drag it to the left.
I'll zoom out here and this is how the code looks like.
Okay, the first job data ingestion
that pulls from the N-Y-C-L-C to the raw folder.
Next one, route to curated.
The next one is curated to aggregate it.
If any of the job fails, the error is caught
and a message is sent to your email via SNS.
And if it does succeed, it is still sent to your email.
So if you click on this job here, it'll take it
to the exact section You see here,
the show is highlighted in the blue here,
which has the code for this job.
Likewise for this, it'll take it to the appropriate section.
Like for, for this, it'll take the appropriate section.
So you get the point that
what you create here gets reflected on the right hand side.
Next, go to config right here. Config, uh, scroll up.
Your teammate would've already given the role.
So choose the role that you already have,
which is mission, D-E-H-H-O-F, step function, role.
And then finally go to the right hand side.
Top click on create, you got the job created.
Now when I say job, it is a state machine. So that's it.
Now you can simply execute this job. Let's go and do that.
Click on execute right here and it opens another page.
And here it asks you to start execution.
We can then simply start execution right here
with the orange button and you can scroll down
and it's already showing the pipeline running.
It is in blue right now,
which means it's in progress you see here.
And if you scroll down a bit,
you will see the different events that are getting executed
as a part of the state machine.
Right now, this task is submitted. This glue job is running.
In fact, you can click here, it will
take you to the glue job run.
So we are in the glue studio now
and this job is currently, uh, running.
It's already finished by the way,
and then it shows succeeded here as well.
And then the next, uh, one is now in fact running.
So likewise, you will see, um, things running step by step.
And you see this one is showing green here.
It means that it succeeded.
If it all something fails, you will see it, uh, as red.
And then one of these branches would, uh, then get called or
or traverse.
I would say that's the right word.
And appropriate, uh, state
or the tasks would then get executed.
Okay? Now this is a happy path.
It's gonna actually succeed
because we know the jobs are running fine.
What I would suggest is, uh, that go back to your glue job
and uh, make some changes.
So click on this and uh, just try to kind
of add some weird error here.
So let's say change this to just add a space here.
It's syntax, right? And save it
and uh, then go back to your, uh, state machine
and then click on execute here.
It'll create one more execution
and then you will see it is failing.
This will the first one will fail
and this will get caught here, right here in fact.
And um, also see whether you're getting an email or not.
Okay? Now, when this finishes,
you should be getting an email.
Okay? So give this a try a simple thing, right?
It's not difficult at all. And I will tell you one thing
before I end this video, that creating the state machine
with the help of this code is not an easy thing at all.
Okay? Before the days of AI understanding this
was not easy, okay?
Because it's about learning one
more language, research language.
So you have really have no excuse at all.
Now to not learn
and the deep dive course, I'll talk about some more things
about step functions and state machines.
So make sure you go through that as well
and make sure this HandsOn is finished.
And if you have loved what we've done so far right now,
you are actually seeing the pipeline getting created.
Now we had built things in isolation
before one job, second job, third job.
Now we are running them sequentially, okay?
We are also catching errors.
We are also catching your success events as well. Also.
So if you are loving this so far
and if you found a lot of value, a lot of in the programs
of far, and if have was able to instantly in the confidence
that you can also do it, then please go to my Google page
and gimme a five star review.
Don't just, just put the five star review there,
but really take some time, two or three minutes
and put down what you've felt so far,
what you've accomplished so far.
Look at the reviews here, read them
and do make sure that your review is really detailed.
I would love to read that review.
Like this one here, in fact
has given me a good, good review.
In fact, these reviews motivate me to do a lot better.
And look at this one. In fact, you know, Mo
Sma a detailed review in fact, okay?
So whatever you felt so far the way I teach,
the way the course is structured,
the way the hands on is structured, what you've been able
to accomplish, if you've been able
to get the confidence, you're able to do it.
And, and please put that down here.
I'll be giving the link, direct link here.
You won't even have to go to the Google and search it.
I'll give the direct link right below the video.
Please go there and, uh, spend about two, three minutes
and gimme a five star detailed paragraph, revel review of
what you felt so far.